Mesh: multi-zone auth (#1102)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/mesh/multi-zone-authentication.md

---

> title: "Multi-zone Authentication"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Multi-zone authentication"
```

description: "Use Control Plane scoped tokens to authenticate zone Control Planes in a multi-zone {{site.mesh_product_name}} deployment."
content_type: reference
layout: reference
products:
  - mesh

tags:

>   - multizone

Author: ```suggestion
  - multi-zone
```

  - authentication
  - zone-tokens

> 
> works_on:
>   - on-prem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

related_resources:
  - text: "Access Audit"
    url: /mesh/access-audit/
  - text: "Certificate Manager"
    url: /mesh/cert-manager/
---

## How does Multi-zone authentication work?
To add to the security of your deployments, {{site.mesh_product_name}} provides authentication of zone Control Planes to the global Control Plane. Authentication is based on the Zone Token which is also used to authenticate the zone proxy.
See [zone proxy authentication](/mesh/zone-proxy/) to learn about token characteristics, revocation, rotation, and more.
To enable authentication between Control Planes:

* Generate a token for each Zone Control Plane with the `cp` scope.
* Pass the token to the Zone Control Plane.
* Enable authentication on the Global Control Plane.

### Generate the token

> On the global Control Plane run the following command, this will store the token in `/tmp/token`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the global Control Plane, run the following command to store the token in `/tmp/token`:
```

```sh
kumactl generate zone-token --zone=west --scope=cp --valid-for=720h > /tmp/token
```

### Add tokens to zones

{% navtabs "add tokens" %}
{% navtab "Kubernetes with kumactl" %}

If you install the zone Control Plane with `kumactl install control-plane`, pass the `--cp-token-path` argument, where the value is the path to the file where the token is stored:

```sh
kumactl install control-plane \
  --mode=zone \

>   --zone=<zone name> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --zone={ZONE-NAME} \
```

  --cp-token-path=/tmp/token \
  --ingress-enabled \

>   --kds-global-address grpcs://`<global-kds-address>`:5685 | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --kds-global-address grpcs://{GLOBAL-KDS-ADDRESS}:5685 | kubectl apply -f -
```

```

Add the following to `Values.yaml`:

```yaml
kuma:
  controlPlane:
    secrets:
      - Env: "KMESH_MULTIZONE_ZONE_KDS_AUTH_CP_TOKEN_INLINE"
        Secret: "cp-token"
        Key: "token"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab "Universal" %}

Set the token as an inline value in a `KMESH_MULTIZONE_ZONE_KDS_AUTH_CP_TOKEN_INLINE` environment variable:

```sh
KUMA_MODE=zone \
KUMA_MULTIZONE_ZONE_NAME=<zone-name> \
KUMA_MULTIZONE_ZONE_GLOBAL_ADDRESS=grpcs://<global-kds-address> \
KMESH_MULTIZONE_ZONE_KDS_AUTH_CP_TOKEN_INLINE="eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjEiLCJ0eXAiOiJKV1QifQ.eyJab25lIjoid2VzdCIsIlNjb3BlIjpbImNwIl0sImV4cCI6MTY2OTU0NjkzOSwibmJmIjoxNjY2OTU0NjM5LCJpYXQiOjE2NjY5NTQ5MzksImp0aSI6IjZiYWYyYzkwLTBlODYtNGM2Mi05N2E3LTc4MzU4NTU4MzRiYyJ9.DJfA0M6uUfO4oytp8jHtzngiVggQWQR88YQxWVU1ujc0Zv-XStRDwvpdEoFGOzWVn4EUfI3gcv9qS2MxqIzQjJ83k5Jq85w4hkPyLGr-0jNS1UZF6yXz7lB_As8f91gMVHbRAoFuoybV5ndDtfYzwZknyzott7doxk-SjTes2GDvpg0-kFNGc4MBR2EprGl7YKO0vhFxQjln5AyCAhmAA7-PM7WRCzhmS-pUXacfZtP2VulWYhmTAuLPnkJrJN-ZWPkIpnV1MZmsgWbzTpnW-PhmCMQfD5m2im1c_3OlFwa9P9rZQQhdhbTp0ofMvW-cdCAcG_lOJI5j60cqPh2DGg" \
./kuma-cp run
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}
### Enable authentication

> If you are starting from scratch and not securing existing {{site.mesh_product_name}} deployment, you can do this as a first step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are starting from scratch and not securing an existing {{site.mesh_product_name}} deployment, you can do this as a first step.
```
